<h2>Welcome to Adélie Linux!</h2>

<p>This is <b>Adélie Linux System Installation</b>, which will guide you
through the process of installing the Adélie Linux operating environment on to
your computer.</p>

<p>Each step of the installation system has a help screen just like this one,
accessible via the 'Help' button in the lower left corner of the screen.</p>

<p>You can view the pages of this help screen by using the scroll bar, or by
pressing the Page Up and Page Down keys.</p>


<hr>


<h2>Using System Installation</h2>

<p>Adélie Linux System Installation is divided in a series of <i>pages</i>,
similar in nature to a paper form.</p>

<p>When you are finishing filling in the information on one page, you may
continue to the next page by choosing Continue or pressing the F8 key.</p>

<p>If you want to go back and review or change information on a previous page,
you may go back by choosing Back or pressing the F6 key.</p>

<p>If you need more information about an option provided, you may open the
Help screen by choosing Help or pressing the F1 key.</p>

<p>If you have decided not to complete the installation procedure at this
time, you may stop at any time by choosing Exit or pressing the F3 key.</p>


<hr>


<h2>Preparing for the installation</h2>

<p>Please back up all of your data before beginning installation. While every
effort is made to ensure that the Adélie Linux installation routines are safe
and error-free, we cannot guarantee that your data will be preserved once you
start the installation.  If you intend on dual-booting your computer with
another operating system, such as Mac OS X or Windows, ensure there is
adequate disk space available to install Adélie Linux. You will need up to
3 GB for a standard desktop installation, or at least 300 MB for a server
installation.</p>

<p>If you plan on connecting to the Internet directly from your Adélie Linux
computer without using a router (not common), ensure you have your Internet
access credentials (typically a username and password) available before
starting installation.  Adélie Linux supports connecting to most ADSL and
dial-up Internet providers using PPP; and cable, T1, and fibre providers using
Ethernet.  If you use a static IP address (not common), make sure you have
your IP address, subnet, and default gateway and nameserver settings before
starting installation.</p>

<p>If your computer came with recovery media, we recommend that you have it
available in the very unlikely event you have an issue with Adélie Linux, or
your hardware has an incompatibility.  This way, you will be able to quickly
restore your computer to normal operation.</p>
