<h2>Startup Configuration</h2>

<p>This page allows you to choose options for starting up your computer.</p>

<h3>What is a bootloader?</h3>

<p>A <i>bootloader</i> is the program that runs when you power on your
computer.  The bootloader is responsible for locating Ad√©lie Linux and/or
other operating environments on your computer, and then loading them in to
memory.</p>

<h3>What option should I choose?</h3>

<p>Typically, <strong>you should always choose to install a bootloader</strong>
unless you have a configuration that will use a different method of booting.
</p>

<ul>
<li><strong>Install a boot loader:</strong> <p>This option will install a
bootloader to your hard disk, replacing any other bootloader if present.</p>
</li>
<li><strong>Do not install a boot loader:</strong> <p>This option will not
install a bootloader to your hard disk.  You may be required to configure a
bootloader yourself before your computer will start up properly.  Choose this
option if you already have another operating environment with a bootloader, or
if your computer has a bootloader in firmware (such as OPAL or UEFI).</p></li>
</ul>

<hr>

<h3>What are the kernel options?</h3>

<p>The kernel options disclosure allows you to choose which Linux kernel you
want to use on your computer.  <strong>Only change these options if you have
hardware that requires it, or your administrator or hardware manufacturer has
told you that you need a special kernel.</strong></p>

<ul>
<li><strong>Use the stable kernel:</strong> <p>This option will install the
LTS version of the Linux kernel, which is well supported and thoroughly tested.
However, it may not support the newest hardware options.</p></li>
<li><strong>Use the mainline kernel:</strong> <p>This option will install the
latest version of the Linux kernel, which has not been as thoroughly tested as
the stable kernel.  Use this option if you have hardware that requires a newer
kernel version than LTS.</p></li>
</ul>
