.Dd May 15, 2020
.Dt Horizon::DiskMan::Disk::name 3
.Os "Adélie Linux"
.Sh NAME
.Nm Horizon::DiskMan::Disk::name ,
.Nm Horizon::DiskMan::Disk::model ,
.Nm Horizon::DiskMan::Disk::serial ,
.Nm Horizon::DiskMan::Disk::node ,
.Nm Horizon::DiskMan::Disk::dev_path
.Nd retrieve properties of a disk
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In diskman/disk.hh
.Cm using Horizon::DiskMan::Disk;
.Ft const std::string
.Fo Disk::name
.Fc
.Ft const std::string
.Fo Disk::model
.Fc
.Ft const std::string
.Fo Disk::serial
.Fc
.Ft const std::string
.Fo Disk::node
.Fc
.Ft const std::string
.Fo Disk::dev_path
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Disk::name
function provides the name of the fixed disk.  This is equivalent to calling
.Xr basename 3
on
.Fn Disk::node .
.Pp
The
.Fn Disk::model
function provides the vendor's given model number for the fixed disk.  This
is a free-form identification string provided by the disk's vendor and could
be blank or meaningless depending on the vendor.  Some external disk
enclosures do not support retrieval of disk model numbers.
.Pp
The
.Fn Disk::serial
function provides the vendor's given serial number for the fixed disk.  Like
.Fn Disk::model ,
this is a free-form string provided by the disk's vendor.  You should not
rely on this string being unique in a given system; some vendors simply copy
the model number as the serial number.  When the given serial number is non-
blank and unequal to the model number, it may be unique.
.Pp
The
.Fn Disk::node
function provides the absolute path of the device node for this disk.
.Pp
The
.Fn Disk::dev_path
function provides the absolute path to the sysfs node for this disk.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These routines return the requested information as a C++ std::string.  Values
are not converted from their native representation.  Virtually all disks the
authors have seen use US-ASCII or UTF-8, but there may be a disk in the wild
that uses a legacy codepage.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following is a simple utility that returns the model and device node of
all disks present in a system:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <diskman/diskman.hh>
#include <iostream>

using Horizon::DiskMan::DiskMan;

int main(void) {
    DiskMan dm;
    auto disks = dm.find_disks(false, false, false);
    for(auto &disk : disks) {
        std::cout << "Disk " << disk.model() << " found at: " << disk.node() << std::endl;
    }
    return 0;
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr Horizon::DiskMan::Disk 3 ,
.Xr Horizon::DiskMan::DiskMan 3 ,
.Xr Horizon::DiskMan::Partition 3 .
.Sh HISTORY
The DiskMan library first appeared in Horizon 0.9.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An A. Wilcox
.Aq awilfox@adelielinux.org
